.\" Manpage for webcam_led.
.\" Contact gclement@baobob.org.in to correct errors or typos.
.\" You may distribute this file under the terms of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License.
.TH man 1 "15 Feb 2015" "1.0.1" "webcam_led man page"
.SH NAME
webcam_led \- Allows to control a webcam led
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <webcam_led/webcam_led.h>
.sp
.BI "struct webcam_led *webcam_init(const char *" dev_name );

.BI "void webcam_free(struct webcam_led *" webcam );

.BI "int webcam_light(struct webcam *" webcam );

.BI "int webcam_unlight(struct webcam *" webcam );

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B webcam_led
is a small library that allows to turn the led of a webcam on when desired.

.BR webcam_init
opens a descriptor to the specified device. If
.I device
is NULL, the
.BR VIDEO_DEVICE
environment variable is used instead. The device is not opened by
.BR webcam_init
itself. It only returns once the necessary memory has been allocated. In particular, if the device does not exists,
.BR webcam_init
still returns successfully.
.PP
.BR webcam_free
unlights the leds, frees all allocated resources including the memory reserved by
.BR webcam_init.
The
.I webcam
argument must have been returned by
.BR webcam_init.
.PP
.BR webcam_light
opens the
.I webcam
device returned by
.BR webcam_init
and does the necessary work to have its LED turned on unless it is already on. It returns 0 if everything was successful. In the other case, it returns nonzero, and an error code is available in
.BR errno.
If the
.I webcam
device is already ON, nothing is done and
.BR webcam_light
returns successfully.
.PP
.BR webcam_unlight
closes the
.I webcam
device returned by
.BR webcam_init
and does the necessary work to have its LED turned off. It returns 0 if everything was successful. In the other case, it returns nonzero, and an error code is available in
.BR errno
Note that no reference counting is done here. No matter how many times
.BR webcam_light
has been called, a single call to
.BR webcam_unlight
will turn the LED off.
.SH BUGS
The list of bugs can be accessed at
.BR https://github.com/guillaumecl/webcam_led/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Guillaume Clement (gclement@baobob.org)
